---
title: "Album of the year 2024"
excerpt: "A great year for music! 2024 saw the release of several albums that I'll be playing for years to come!"
date: "2024-12-21T21:11:37+01:00"
tags: ["music", "lists", "2024"]
coverImage: "/assets/img/cover/fergusmccreadie-stream.jpg"
ogImage:
  url: "/assets/img/og/fergusmccreadie-stream.jpg"
type: "list"
---

This one's not going to have a long post, but some things I'd like to share.

Of course, folk music (and Scottish in particular) will likely never die or even get dull. However, the new life that **Fergus McCreadie** breathes into this genre with **Stream** is astonishing to witness. From start to finish, he balances the natural and pure sounds of folk music with the creative improvisation that we know as jazz in a perfect dance. Some musicians may mash genres together with brute force, but it takes a true master in both worlds to naturally meld them into something new, and that's exactly what happens on Stream. A masterpiece!

Much has been written and said about **Geordie Greep**s first solo album, so I'll leave the over-analyzing to the over-analyzers. However, what cannot be repeated enough: Geordie Greep simultaneously reminds us how great music can be, and explores new directions of what music can do. An absolute masterclass.

Oh, and damn you **Dua Lipa**, for ruining my reputation with music nerds. Everything you put on record is just so damn catchy! I have to put it on here.

1. Fergus McCreadie - Stream
2. Geordie Greep - The New Sound
3. Oranssi Pazuzu - Muuntautuja
4. Joey Valence & Brae - NO HANDS
5. Angélica Garcia - Gemelo
6. Sólstafir - Hin helga kvöl
7. Dua Lipa - Radical Optimism
8. Jane Paknia - Orchid Underneath
9. Ihsahn - IHSAHN
10. IDLES - TANGK

Some notable mentions are in order too:

**Mykalle - Da Pacem** with a take on choral music, likely inspired by Christian tradition juding by the title, that makes the genre surprisingly listenable and interesting to my ears. Unburdened by any knowledge of this musical tradition, I was able to really enjoy the vocal serenity supported by electronic elements.

In similar spaces, **Max Cooper - Seme** was branching into new territory for the electronic artist. Also exploring the rich tradition of choral music, explicitly inspired by Italian aesthetics and music. Not something to put on every day, but certainly a notable release that I'm sure I'll be coming back to in the future.
